REInvestmentPro


This is my personal project for Code Platoon, inspired by my passion for real estate investing. 

This app was built using Python and Django for the backend and Javascript, React and Vite for the frontend.

This app allows a user to seach for a property, view rent data, make calculations and save the prooperty. The user is able to create an accound with an email and password. They are then directed to their empty portfilio page with the suggestion to add properties. To add a property the user can begin to type in the address and will be presented with autocomplete suggestions from Google Places API. Once the user selects the address they must input the number of beds, baths, sqft and optionally add details. Upon submit, the user will be presented with a photo of the property from Google Static Streetview API and rent data from Rentometer API. At this point the property is not saved. The user can select to add the property to their portfolio or to a list. If the user does not have any list yet they will be able to create a list to add it to. The user also has access to a purchase worksheet. Each property has a corresponding purchase worksheet. Here the user can input things such as purchase price, expenses, and income and they will receive calculations such as cash on cash return and cap rate. The app also has a calculator page that does the ssame thing, but the user doesn't need to add a property to use it. The results of the calculator are not saved. The user can visit their lists page and here they can create list or select an existing one to view properties inside of it. 

I came across many hurdles along the way, but I was able to overcome and accomplish the goal. I learned so much just from this project. I created the backend first and once I started on the frontend I realized I needed to make adjustments to my models for things to work as I intended. I used three different api's and each one was different. I used the results of the Google Places API as the paremeter for the Google Streetview and Rentometer API so I had to ensure it was in the correct format. I used tailwind for the first time for my CSS and really enjoyed it. One of the last things I did was make the app responsive to changing screen sizes. It felt great to accomplish this. 

Originally, I wanted to use Zillow API to show the user homes for sale, but I learned that you have to be approved by a realtor association to have access and it would only be for a specific area. I searched for other api's that might accomplish this, but couldn't find anything in the time I had. My goal in the future would be to implement this feature into the app. I really want the app to be a one stop shop for real estate investors. I would also like to give the user the option to add documents to the properties in their portfolio like leases or purchase contracts.

I would like to clean up the code and make it more organized and reusable. My plan was to write the code, make it work, and then clean it up. I'm realizing now that I should have focused on organization from the start. At this point, I've learned so much that if I were to start over I think I could accomplish the same things in much smoother and organized code. 

Thank you for checking out my project. I hope it can provide value to you. 
